OSDOCS-19753: adds Vault integration MCP gateway (#111554)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/ref-mcp-gateway-vault-auth-policy-values.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// *mcp_gateway_config/mcp-gateway-vault.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="ref-mcp-gateway-vault-single-server-auth-policy_{context}"]
= Parameter values for a single-server-scoped AuthPolicy CR

[role="_abstract"]
When you create an `AuthPolicy` custom resource (CR) to connect an external OIDC Identity Provider (IdP) with HashiCorp Vault (Vault), you must use custom values in many fields. Use the following reference information to create your CR.

.Parameters for a single-server-scoped AuthPolicy CR
[width="100%",cols="30%,70%",options="header"]
|===
|*Parameter*
|*Definition*

|`metadata.name`
|A unique name for this `AuthPolicy` CR.

|`metadata.namespace`
|The namespace of your MCP server.

|`spec.targetRef.name`
|The name of the `HTTPRoute` CR of your MCP server.

|`rules.authentication"mcp-clients".jwt.issuerUrl`
|The issuer URL of your OpenId Connect SSO provider. You can also use `.jwksUrl` instead of `.issuerUrl:` for authentication servers that do not implement OIDC. This is the primary authentication step that validates who the user is.

|`spec.metadata."oauth-token".https.url`

> |the token endpoint of your OAuth provider. Typically, this URL ends with `/token`. This parameter specifies the call to the provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|The token endpoint of the OAuth provider used to authenticate to Vault. Typically, this URL ends with `/token`.
```

|`spec.rules.metadata.cache.ttl`

> |Your required time in seconds. The example value is 30 minutes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Time in seconds that Authorino will cache and reuse the metadata once returned by the external service (OAuth token or Vault client token). The example value is 30 minutes.
```

|`spec.metadata."vault-login".https.url`

> |Your the JWT login endpoint. This value typically ends in `/v1/auth/jwt/login`. This step performs the JWT authentication against Vault.

Reviewer: nit:

```suggestion
|The Vault JWT login endpoint. This value typically ends in `/v1/auth/jwt/login`. This step performs the JWT authentication against Vault.
```

|`spec.metadata.cache.ttl`
|Your required time in seconds. The example value is 60 minutes.

|`spec.metadata."vault"`
|These parameter values specify the secret retrieval from Vault.

|`spec.rules.metadata."vault".https.urlExpression`

> |Your Vault server URL and secret path. Adapt the `auth-identity` according to how your claims uniquely identify an MCP gateway user. The Vault path in the expression must match the KV Secrets Engine version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Your Vault server URL and secret path. Replaced the `auth.identity.sub` variable according to how your claims uniquely identify an MCP gateway user if needed. The Vault path in the expression must match the KV Secrets Engine version.
```

|`spec.rules.metadata.cache.ttl`
|Time in seconds that Authorino caches the specific metadata source within the rules list. The example value is 30 minutes. This value overrides the global `spec.metadata.cache.ttl`. When user permissions from Vault rarely change, the value is longer. When user quota or usage changes often, you can set a short time or disable it entirely for the specific rule.

|`spec.metadata."vault-login".https.url`
|The Vault JWT login endpoint. This value typically ends in `/v1/auth/jwt/login`. This step performs the JWT authentication against Vault.

|`spec.metadata.cache.ttl`
|Time in seconds that Authorino caches and reuses the metadata after it is returned by the external service, such as OAuth token or Vault client token. The example value is 60 minutes.

|`spec.metadata."vault"`
|These parameter values specify the secret retrieval from Vault.

|`spec.rules.metadata."vault-login".https.urlExpression`
|Your Vault service name, namespace, and port. Replace as required if TLS is disabled at the vault service, or if the other values do not match your scenario.

|`spec.rules.metadata."vault".https.urlExpression`

> |Your Vault server URL and secret path. Replaced the `auth.identity.sub` variable according to how your claims uniquely identify an MCP gateway user if needed. The Vault path in the expression must match the KV Secrets Engine version.

Reviewer: nit:

```suggestion
|Your Vault server URL and secret path. Replace the `auth.identity.sub` variable according to how your claims uniquely identify an MCP gateway user if needed. The Vault path in the expression must match the KV Secrets Engine version.
```
